\input texinfo
@c %**start of header

@setfilename ls-emacs
@settitle    LS-Emacs @value{version}
@set version 1.2
@set edition Second, revised
@set docdate January 1998

@paragraphindent 0

@tex
  %  \global\parindent         =  0pt
  \global\parskip           =  6pt plus 1pt
  \global\chapheadingskip   = 15pt plus 4pt minus 2pt 
  \global\secheadingskip    = 12pt plus 3pt minus 2pt
  \global\subsecheadingskip =  9pt plus 2pt minus 2pt
  \special{! <</Duplex true>> setpagedevice}

  \global\catcode`\«13\global\def«{{\tt <}}
  \global\catcode`\»13\global\def»{{\tt >}}
  \global\catcode`\·13\global\def·%
    {\raise 0.5pt\hbox{\kern 1pt$\cdot$\kern 1pt}}
  \global\catcode`\¦13\global\def¦{\kern -1.5pt{\tt |}\kern -1.5pt}
  \global\catcode`\Ä13\global\defÄ{\"A}
  \global\catcode`\ä13\global\defä{\"a}
  \global\catcode`\Ö13\global\defÖ{\"O}
  \global\catcode`\ö13\global\defö{\"o}
  \global\catcode`\Ü13\global\defÜ{\"U}
  \global\catcode`\ü13\global\defü{\"u}
  \global\catcode`\ß13\global\defß{\ss }
  \global\def\makebraceother%
    {\catcode`\{\other
     \catcode`\}\other
    }
  \global\def\LaTeX%
    {{L\kern-.36em\raise.3ex\hbox{\sc a}\kern-.15em
      T\kern-.1667em\lower.7ex\hbox{E}\kern-.125emX%
     }
    } 
  \global\let\POINT=\point
  \global\def\point%
    {\kern 1pt\vrule height 9.5pt depth 3pt width 2pt\kern 1pt}
  @set LaTeX @LaTeX{}
@end tex

@ifinfo
  @set LaTeX LaTeX
@end ifinfo

@finalout
@c @setchapternewpage off
@c 
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@c ««texinfo-header-command»»···
@c %**end of header

@titlepage
@title LS-Emacs
@subtitle Language Sensitive Emacs Version @value{version}
@subtitle @value{edition} Edition, @value{docdate}

@author by Christian Tanzer
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1994, 1995, 1996,1997 Christian Tanzer.

Published by @*
Christian Tanzer @*
Glasauergasse 32 @*
A--1130 Vienna, Austria, Europe @*
Phone +43 1 876 62 36 @*
Fax   +43 1 877 66 92 @*
E-Mail tanzer@@swing.co.at

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified
versions of this manual under the conditions for
verbatim copying
@c , provided also that the sections
@c entitled ``Copying'' and ``GNU General Public License''
@c are included exactly as in the original, and
provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed
under the terms of a permission notice identical to this
one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute
translations of this manual into another language, 
under the above conditions for modified versions, 
except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by Christian Tanzer.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo

This file documents LS-Emacs, a language sensitive extension of the
popular GNU Emacs editor.

Copyright 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997.

Christian Tanzer @*
Glasauergasse 32 @*
A--1130 Vienna, Austria, Europe @*
+43 1 876 62 36

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

@c @ignore 
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX
and print the results, provided the printed document
carries a copying permission notice identical to this
one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@c @end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified
versions of this manual under the conditions for
verbatim copying, provided also that the sections
entitled ``Copying'' and ``GNU General Public License''
are included exactly as in the original, and provided
that the entire resulting derived work is distributed
under the terms of a permission notice identical to this
one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute
translations of this manual into another language, 
under the above conditions for modified versions, 
except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by Christian Tanzer.
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
@node Top, Intro, (dir), (dir)
@top  LS-Emacs

LS-Emacs (@dfn{Language Sensitive Emacs}) is an extension to the popular
GNU Emacs editor. LS-Emacs provides language specific templates and
on-line help on language features. This Info file describes how to edit
with LS-Emacs, how to design language specific templates, and how to use
LS-Emacs features inside elisp programs. It does not describe general
Emacs concepts --- please read the Emacs documentation to learn standard
Emacs.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Intro::                       
* Examples::                    
* Editing::                     
* Templates::                   
* Programming::                 
* Command-Reference::           
* Installation::                
* Customization::               
* Limitations&Future::          
* Index::                       
@end menu

@include introduction.texi
@include examples.texi
@include editing.texi
@include templates.texi
@include programming.texi
@include reference.texi
@include installation.texi
@include customization.texi
@include future.texi
@include indices.texi

@summarycontents
@contents
@bye
