@node    Command-Reference, Installation, Programming, Top
@chapter Reference Manual for Interactive Commands

This chapter explains all interactive commands provided by
LS-Emacs.@footnote{Alas, it describes an ancient version of LS-Emacs (Summer
1994). I didn't have enough time to update this chapter yet. Sorry.}

@findex lse-align-and-down
@deffn Command lse-align-and-down
This command inserts or removes as many spaces as necessary to align to
the corresponding position of the same character as the current one on
the previous line. Afterwards, it moves point one line down.

@kindex blue /
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue /}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-align-and-up
@deffn Command lse-align-and-up
This command inserts or removes as many spaces as necessary to align to
the corresponding position of the same character as the current one on
the next line. Afterwards, it moves point one line up.

@kindex gold /
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold /}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-align-to-next-word
@deffn Command lse-align-to-next-word num
This command inserts as many spaces as necessary to align to the
position of the corresponding word of the next line, i.e. in forward
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many lines to
move for finding the alignment position.

@kindex gold SPC
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold SPC}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-align-to-next-word-and-up
@deffn Command lse-align-to-next-word-and-up num
This command inserts as many spaces as necessary to align to the
position of the corresponding word of the next line, i.e. in forward
direction; after aligning, @code{lse-align-to-next-word-and-up} moves
point one line up. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many
lines to move for finding the alignment position.

@kindex gold v
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold v}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-align-to-previous-word
@deffn Command lse-align-to-previous-word num
This command inserts as many spaces as necessary to align to the
position of the corresponding word of the previous line, i.e. in reverse
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many lines to
move for finding the alignment position.

@kindex blue SPC
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue SPC}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-align-to-previous-word-and-down
@deffn Command lse-align-to-previous-word-and-down num
This command inserts as many spaces as necessary to align to the
position of the corresponding word of the previous line, i.e. in reverse
direction; after aligning, @code{lse-align-to-next-word-and-up} moves
point one line down. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many
lines to move for finding the alignment position.

@kindex blue v
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue v}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-balance-windows
@deffn Command lse-balance-windows
This command resizes all windows so that all have roughly the same height.
@end deffn

@findex lse-blink-select-mark
@deffn Command lse-blink-select-mark
This command positions point for 2 seconds on the other boundary of the
selection.

@kindex blue gold enter
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold enter}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-change-output-file
@deffn Command lse-change-output-file buf &optional new-name silent
This command changes the name of the output file associated to buffer
@var{buf} to the name @var{new-name}. Unless @var{silent} is specified,
the command will display an informational message in the message window.

@kindex blue o
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue o}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-command:do
@deffn Command lse-command:do &optional command
This command pops up a completion menu with the most commonly used
commands. You can add commands to the menu with the function
@code{lse-command:add}. 
 
@kindex gold kp7
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp7}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-compilation:goto-last-mark
@deffn Command lse-compilation:goto-last-mark
This command returns to the position prior to the last execution of
@code{lse-compilation:next-error}. It comes in handy if there were no
more errors left, in which case Emacs switches to the compilation
buffer.

@kindex gold b
In Emacs compilation buffers, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold b}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-compilation:next-error
@deffn Command lse-compilation:next-error &optional prefix
This command positions to the next compiler error or grep match. You can
use it after compiling a buffer with the command @code{lse-compile} (or the
standard Emacs command @code{compile}) or after searching with the
command @code{lse-grep} (or its Emacs analogon @code{grep}).

Strange things happen, if you issue this command when the last error or
grep match was already visited.

@kindex A-f
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-f}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-compile
@deffn Command lse-compile
This command compiles the current buffer. The effect depends on the kind
of buffer.
@itemize @bullet
@item
If the buffer contains LS-Emacs template definitions @code{lse-compile}
calls @code{lse-language:compile}.

LS-Emacs looks at the extension of the buffer to decide if it contains
LS-Emacs templates.

@item
If the buffer uses the major mode Emacs-Lisp @code{lse-compile} calls
@code{eval-current-buffer} which evaluates the buffer as lisp code.

@item
For all other kinds of buffers @code{lse-compile} calls @code{compile}
with the variable @var{compile-command} as parameter.
@end itemize
 
@kindex blue y
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue y}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-compile-defun
@deffn Command lse-compile-defun
This command evaluates the lisp function containing or before point and
prints the value in the echo area. It is equivalent to executing the
Emacs commands @code{beginning-of-defun} and @code{eval-defun} in
sequence (inside a @code{save-excursion} block).

By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{red y}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-count-matches
@deffn Command lse-count-matches
This command counts the number of matches of a regular expression in the
entire current buffer.

@kindex blue #
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue #}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-delete-other-windows
@deffn Command lse-delete-other-windows &optional wdw
This command deletes all windows but the current window. The optional
argument @var{wdw} instructs the command to all windows but @var{wdw}.

@kindex blue gold -
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold -}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-delete-window
@deffn Command lse-delete-window &optional wdw
This command deletes the current window. The optional argument @var{wdw}
instructs the command to delete another than the current window.

@kindex blue gold =
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold =}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-describe-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-describe-fill-in
This command displays a description of the current fill-in in the
message window. Point must be inside a flat fill-in.

@kindex A-o
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-o}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-expand
@deffn Command lse-expand
If point is inside a flat fill-in, @code{lse-expand} will expand that
fill-in. Otherwise, this command will look for a token and expands that
token if it finds one. @code{lse-expand} will look at the words
preceding point to find a token and always will try to find the longest
match.

A token-name cannot cross line boundaries, and @code{lse-expand} will
consider at most 5 words when looking for the token-name.

@kindex A-e
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-e}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-expand-or-goto-next
@deffn Command lse-expand-or-goto-next
This command expands the current fill-in, if any, or else it moves point
to the next flat fill-in.
@end deffn

@findex lse-expand-or-tabulator
@deffn Command lse-expand-or-tabulator
This command expands the current fill-in, if any, or else it calls
@code{lse-tabulator}.

@kindex TAB
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{TAB}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-expand-token
@deffn Command lse-expand-token &optional quiet
Expands the token preceding point. If @code{lse-expand-token} does not
find a valid token-name, it will display a warning message, unless the
optional argument @var{quiet} has a non-nil value. You can use a prefix
argument for @var{quiet}.

This command is called by @code{lse-expand}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-fill-range
@deffn Command lse-fill-range
This command fills the current selection or the current paragraph, if no
selection is active.

@kindex gold |
@kindex blue gold ~
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{gold |} and @kbd{blue
gold ~}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-flush-replacement
@deffn Command lse-flush-replacement
This commands terminates a pending replacement. Sometimes, LS-Emacs
becomes confused when a replacement is pending. This happens for
instance, when you delete the range of the pending replacement by normal
deletion commands. This confusion may result in a hanging of the editor.
If that happens, use @kbd{C-g} to regain control and use
@code{lse-flush-replacement} to exorcize any trace of the pending
replacement. 
 
@kindex blue gold A-r
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold A-r}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-buffer buf may-create temporary no-mark default
This command switches to buffer @var{buf}. If @var{may-create} is
supplied, a new buffer is created, if it does not already
exist. @var{temporary} and @var{no-mark} have the same meaning as for
@code{lse-goto-buffer+maybe-create}.

@kindex gold f
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold f}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-buffer+maybe-create
@deffn Command lse-goto-buffer+maybe-create &optional buf temporary no-mark
This command switches to the buffer @var{buf}. It that buffer does not
exist, it will be created. If @var{temporary} is supplied, the new
buffer won't be considered to be a user buffer. If @var{no-mark} is
supplied, the command won't change the mark-stacks.

@kindex blue f
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue f}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-buffer-other-window
@deffn Command lse-goto-buffer-other-window &optional buf may-create temporary no-mark default
This command switches to buffer @var{buf} in another window. If
@var{may-create} is supplied, a new buffer is created, if it does not
already exist. @var{temporary} and @var{no-mark} have the same meaning
as for @code{lse-goto-buffer+maybe-create}.

@kindex blue gold f
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold f}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-home-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-home-mark-buffer
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
home-mark of the mark-stack of the current buffer. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-home-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-goto-home-mark-global
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
home-mark of the global mark-stack. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.

@kindex gold h
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold h}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-home-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-goto-home-mark-window
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
home-mark of the mark-stack of the current window. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.

@kindex blue h
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue h}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-last-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-last-mark-buffer
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
last-mark of the mark-stack of the current buffer. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.

@kindex blue gold b
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold b}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-last-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-goto-last-mark-global
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
last-mark of the global mark-stack. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.

@kindex gold b
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold b}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-last-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-goto-last-mark-window
This command switches to the buffer and position specified by the
last-mark of the mark-stack of the current window. The position before
the command will be stacked on the appropriate mark-stacks.

@kindex blue b
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue b}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-last-position
@deffn Command lse-goto-last-position
This commands positions point to the position before the last execution
of either @code{lse-goto-next-fill-in} or @code{lse-goto-prev-fill-in}.

@kindex gold A-n
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{gold A-n} and
@kbd{gold A-p}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-mark-and-pop-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-mark-and-pop-buffer
This command removes the top-mark from the mark-stack of the current
buffer and positions point to that mark. 

@kindex blue gold g
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold g}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-mark-and-pop-global
@deffn Command lse-goto-mark-and-pop-global
This command removes the top-mark from the global mark-stack 
and positions point to that mark. 

@kindex gold g
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold g}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-mark-and-pop-window
@deffn Command lse-goto-mark-and-pop-window
This command removes the top-mark from the mark-stack of the current
window and positions point to that mark. 

@kindex blue g
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue g}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-next-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-next-buffer
This command switches to the next (younger) user buffer. LS-Emacs orders
the user buffers by age. This command does not change the mark-stacks.

@kindex gold n
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold n}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-goto-next-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-goto-next-fill-in &optional quiet name
This command moves point to the next flat fill-in in forward direction.
It displays a warning message if none is found unless @var{quiet} has a
non-nil value. You can use a prefix argument for @var{quiet}.

If @var{name} is specified --- this can be done only by a call from a
lisp function --- @code{lse-goto-next-fill-in} will move position to the
next occurrence of the flat fill-in @var{name}, if any.

@kindex A-n
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-n}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-goto-prev-buffer
@deffn Command lse-goto-prev-buffer
This command switches to the previous (older) user buffer. LS-Emacs orders
the user buffers by age. This command does not change the mark-stacks.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-goto-prev-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-goto-prev-fill-in &optional quiet name
This command moves point to the previous fill-in in backward direction,
if any. It displays a warning message if none is found unless
@var{quiet} has a non-nil value. You can use a prefix argument for
@var{quiet}.

If @var{name} is specified --- this can be done only by a call from a
lisp function --- @code{lse-goto-prev-fill-in} will move position to the
previous occurrence of the flat fill-in @var{name}, if any.

@kindex A-p
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-p}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-grep
@deffn Command lse-grep grep-args
This command runs agrep with the arguments grep-args. If used
interactively, it will prompt for @var{grep-args}. You can visit all
matches found by grep by executing the command
@code{lse-compilation:next-error}. 

The default for the command is taken from the variable
@var{lse-compilation:grep-command}. You can change this variable in your
@file{.emacs} file if you want to use another version of grep.
 
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold find}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-help-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-help-fill-in
This command displays a description of the current fill-in in a popped-up
window. Point must be inside a flat fill-in.

You can remove the popped-up window by using the key @kbd{BLUE A-f}.

@kindex gold A-o
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold A-o}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-indent-line
@deffn Command lse-indent-line
This command indents the current line --- no matter where in the line
point is located --- corresponding to the indentation of the previous
line. If point is currently located on any kind of closing parenthesis
(as defined by the syntax table), @code{lse-indent-line} will indent to
the indentation level of the corresponding opening parenthesis.

@kindex gold TAB
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold TAB}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-indent-rigidly
@deffn Command lse-indent-rigidly &optional amount
This command indents the current selection or the current line rigidly
by @var{amount} blanks (default 2). 

@kindex gold left
@kindex gold right
@kindex blue left
@kindex blue right
By default, this command is bound (with different arguments) to the keys
@kbd{gold left}, @kbd{gold right}, @kbd{blue left}, and @kbd{blue right}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-buffer
@deffn Command lse-insert-buffer &optional buffer
This command inserts the contents of the buffer named @var{buffer} into
the current buffer. In contrast to the corresponding Emacs command, no
mark is set.

@kindex blue p
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue p}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-buffer-name
@deffn Command lse-insert-buffer-name &optional buf
This command inserts the name of buffer @var{buf} into the current buffer.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-dd-mm-yyyy
@deffn Command lse-insert-dd-mm-yyyy
This command inserts the current date formatted as
@code{dd-mm-yyyy}, e.g., 1.7.1994, into the buffer.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-dd-mm-yyyy+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-dd-mm-yyyy+blank
This command inserts the current date formatted as
@code{dd-mm-yyyy}, e.g., 1.7.1994, into the buffer. It will add a
blank unless the next character already is a blank. 

@kindex blue d
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue d}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-dd-mmm-yyyy
@deffn Command lse-insert-dd-mmm-yyyy
This command inserts the current date formatted as
@code{dd-mmm-yyyy}, e.g., 1-Jul-1994, into the buffer.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-dd-mmm-yyyy+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-dd-mmm-yyyy+blank
This command inserts the current date formatted as
@code{dd-mmm-yyyy}, e.g., 1-Jul-1994, into the buffer. It will add a
blank unless the next character already is a blank. 

@kindex gold d
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold d}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-file
@deffn Command lse-insert-file &optional file
This command inserts the contents of file @var{file} at the current
position of the current buffer.

@kindex blue gold i
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold i}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-time
@deffn Command lse-insert-time
This command inserts the current date and time into the current buffer.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-insert-time+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-time+blank
This command inserts the current date and time into the current buffer.
It will add a blank unless the next character already is a blank.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-full-name
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-full-name 
This command inserts the full name of the user into the current buffer.

@kindex blue z
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue z}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-full-name+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-full-name+blank
This command inserts the full name of the user into the current buffer.
It will add a blank unless the next character already is a blank.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-initials
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-initials
This command inserts the initials of the user into the current buffer. 

@kindex gold z
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold z}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-initials-tex
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-initials-tex
This command inserts the initials of the user as @TeX{}-command into the
current buffer.

@kindex gold z
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold z}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-initials+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-initials+blank
This command inserts the initials of the user into the current buffer. 
It will add a blank unless the next character already is a blank.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-initials-tex+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-initials-tex+blank
This command inserts the initials of the user as @TeX{}-command into the
current buffer. It will add a blank unless the next character already
is a blank.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-name
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-name
This command inserts the user name, i.e., your login name, into the
current buffer.

@kindex blue gold z
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold z}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-user-name+blank
@deffn Command lse-insert-user-name+blank
This command inserts the user name, i.e., your login name, into the
current buffer. It will add a blank unless the next character already
is a blank.
@end deffn

@findex lse-insert-year
@deffn Command lse-insert-year
This command inserts the current year into the current buffer.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-kill-all-optional-fill-ins
@deffn Command lse-kill-all-optional-fill-ins
This command kills all optional flat fill-ins between point and the end
of the buffer. Required fill-ins are not affected.

@kindex blue gold A-k
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold A-k}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-kill-buffer
@deffn Command lse-kill-buffer &optional buf
This command deletes the buffer @var{buf} (default: current buffer).
Emacs will ask for confirmation if the buffer was changed since the last
saving to a file.

@kindex blue gold e
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold e}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-kill-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-kill-fill-in &optional dont-move
This command kills the current or the next fill-in in the buffer. If
that fill-in is required, @code{lse-kill-fill-in} will ask for
confirmation. If the fill-in is non-replaceable, an error will occur.

Afterwards it will position point to the next fill-in unless
@var{dont-move} has a non-nil value. You can use a prefix argument for
@var{dont-move}.

@kindex A-k
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-k}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-language:compile
@deffn Command lse-language:compile &optional name
This command compiles the LS-Emacs language named @var{name}.

@code{lse-language:compile} will prompt for @var{name}, if none was provided in
the call. The prompting is done in two stages. First,
@code{lse-language:compile} offers a completion mode, where you can select any
of the pre-loaded languages. If you exit the completion mode without
selection, lse-language:compile will then prompt without completion,
which allows you to compile a language not yet known to LS-Emacs. 
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-language:reload
@deffn Command lse-language:reload &optional name
This command reloads the LS-Emacs language named @var{name}. You can use
this command to load a new version of a language without leaving
LS-Emacs and starting it afresh.

@code{lse-language:reload} uses the same completion mode for @var{name}
as @code{lse-language:compile}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-language:use
@deffn Command lse-language:use &optional name
This commands selects a specific LS-Emacs language for the current buffer.
Normally LS-Emacs will select the language automatically, but you can
change the language used whenever you want.

@code{lse-language:use} uses the same completion mode for @var{name}
as @code{lse-language:compile}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-learn-key
@deffn Command lse-learn-key key 
This command starts the learning of a keyboard macro to be associated to
the key @var{key}. From now on, all LS-Emacs will record all keystrokes
you type, whether they are commands or literal text. To end the
definition, type the key @var{key} once again. While the recording is
active, @code{Learn-`@var{key}'} will appear in the status line. Any
error during the recording will immediately terminate the definition.

@kindex blue l
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue l}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-learn-named-key
@deffn Command lse-learn-named-key key name
This command starts the learning of a named keyboard macro to be associated to
the key @var{key}. From now on, all LS-Emacs will record all keystrokes
you type, whether they are commands or literal text. To end the
definition, type the key @var{key} once again. While the recording is
active, @code{Learn-`@var{key}'} will appear in the status line. Any
error during the recording will immediately terminate the definition.

@kindex blue gold l
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold l}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-next-screen
@deffn Command lse-next-screen &optional arg
This command scrolls in forward direction, i.e., moves point down by
@var{arg} scroll-units. One scroll-unit equals twenty percent of the
current window's height.

@kindex next
@kindex gold next
By default, this command is bound with different arguments to the keys
@kbd{next} and @kbd{gold next}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-next-window
@deffn Command lse-next-window
This command selects the next window below the current window on the
screen. If the current window is at the bottom of the screen,
@code{lse-next-window} will select the top-most window.

@kindex gold down
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold down}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-open-line
@deffn Command lse-open-line
This command opens a new line above the current line. If point is inside
a fill-in, no replacement will be started and point will remain in the
fill-in.

@kindex gold kp0
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp0}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-pop+restore-window-configuration
@deffn Command lse-pop+restore-window-configuration
This command restores the window configuration which is on the top of
LS-Emacs window configuration stack.

@kindex blue gold ^
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold ^}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-previous-screen
@deffn Command lse-previous-screen &optional arg
This command scrolls in reverse direction, i.e., moves point up by
@var{arg} scroll-units. One scroll-unit equals twenty percent of the
current window's height.

@kindex prior
@kindex gold prior
By default, this command is bound with different arguments to the keys
@kbd{prior} and @kbd{gold prior}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-previous-window
@deffn Command lse-previous-window
This command selects the next window above the current window on the
screen. If the current window is at the top of the screen,
@code{lse-previous-window} will select the bottom-most window.

@kindex gold up
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold up}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-push-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-push-mark-buffer
This command pushes the current position of point onto the mark-stack of
the current buffer.

@kindex blue gold m
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold m}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-push-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-push-mark-global
This command pushes the current position of point onto the global mark-stack.

@kindex gold m
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold m}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-push-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-push-mark-window
This command pushes the current position of point onto the mark-stack of
the current window.

@kindex blue m
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue m}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-push-window-configuration
@deffn Command lse-push-window-configuration
This command pushes the current window configuration onto a stack of
window configurations. You can later restore that configuration by using
the command @code{lse-pop+restore-window-configuration}.

@kindex blue ^
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue ^}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-reexpand-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-reexpand-fill-in
This command re-expands the last un-expanded fill-in, if any, i.e., it
undoes the effect of the last @code{lse-unexpand-fill-in}.

@kindex blue A-e
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue A-e}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-rename-buffer
@deffn Command lse-rename-buffer buf &optional new-name
This command renames the buffer @var{buf} to @var{new-name}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-replace-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-replace-fill-in
This command either closes the currently active replacement or --- if
point is inside a flat fill-in --- starts the replacement of that
fill-in. 

@kindex A-r
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-r}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-replicate-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-replicate-fill-in
If point is inside a flat fill-in, this command will replace the fill-in
by the value of the last expansion of the same fill-in. If the fill-in
was replicated and LS-Emacs is still in replacement mode, this command
will replace the fill-in by the value of the next to last expansion of
the same fill-in. By using this command repeatedly, you can try all the
different previous expansions of the fill-in.


@kindex A-s
@kindex gold A-s
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{A-s} and @kbd{gold A-s}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-rereplace-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-rereplace-fill-in
This command re-replaces the last un-replaced fill-in, if any, i.e., it
undoes the effect of the last @code{lse-unreplace-fill-in}.

@code{lse-rereplace-fill-in} re-opens the replacement of the fill-in,
i.e., you can extend the replacement by using this command.

@kindex blue A-r
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue A-r}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-revert-buffer
@deffn Command lse-revert-buffer
This command reverts the current buffer to the contents of the
associated file.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-ring-bell
@deffn Command lse-ring-bell
This commands rings the terminal's bell.

@kindex blue blue
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue blue}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-scroll-other-window-back
@deffn Command lse-scroll-other-window-back
This command scrolls the other window backward by a third of its height,
i.e., moves point up.

@kindex blue prior
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue prior}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-scroll-other-window-forw
@deffn Command lse-scroll-other-window-forw
This command scrolls the other window forward by a third of its height,
i.e., moves point down.

@kindex blue next
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue next}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-angle-range
@deffn Command lse-select-angle-range
This command selects the next range which is enclosed in angle brackets
(@code{< @dots{} >}) and puts point to the end of the selection.

@kindex blue <
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue <}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-brace-range
@deffn Command lse-select-brace-range
This command selects the next range which is enclosed in braces and puts
point to the end of the selection.

@kindex blue @{
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue @{}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-bracket-range
@deffn Command lse-select-bracket-range
This command selects the next range which is enclosed in brackets and puts
point to the end of the selection.

@kindex blue [
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue [}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-current-bs-word
@deffn Command lse-select-current-bs-word num
This command selects the current (@var{num}) blank-separated word(s) and
puts point to the end of the selection. If point is inside a word, that
word is current; if it is between words, the previous word is considered
current.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-current-word
@deffn Command lse-select-current-word num
This command selects the current (@var{num}) word(s) and puts point to
the end of the selection. If point is inside a word, that word is
current; if it is between words, the previous word is considered current.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-guillemot-range
@deffn Command lse-select-guillemot-range
This command selects the next range which is enclosed in guillemots
(@code{« @dots{} »})and puts point to the end of the selection.

@kindex blue gold <
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold <}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-select-paren-range
@deffn Command lse-select-paren-range
This command selects the next range which is enclosed in parentheses and puts
point to the end of the selection.

@kindex blue (
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue (}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-buffer-nowrite
@deffn Command lse-set-buffer-nowrite buf
This command disables writing of the buffer @var{buf}.
As Emacs won't let you change a buffer which is set to no-write, this
command removes the association between the buffer and its output file.
In addition, it inhibits auto-saving.

@kindex blue A-w
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue A-w}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-buffer-write
@deffn Command lse-set-buffer-write buf
This command enables writing of the buffer @var{buf}. In addition, it
enables auto-saving.

@kindex blue gold A-w
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold A-w}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-home-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-set-home-mark-buffer &optional to-mark
This command sets the home-mark of the current buffer's mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-home-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-set-home-mark-global &optional to-mark
This command sets the home-mark of the global mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-home-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-set-home-mark-window &optional to-mark
This command sets the home-mark of the current window's mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.

@kindex blue gold h
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold h}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-last-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-set-last-mark-buffer &optional to-mark
This command sets the last-mark of the current buffer's mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-last-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-set-last-mark-global &optional to-mark
This command sets the last-mark of the global mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-last-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-set-last-mark-window &optional to-mark
This command sets the last-mark of the current window's mark-stack to
@var{to-mark} or to the current position of point.
@end deffn

@findex lse-set-tab-increment
@deffn Command lse-set-tab-increment inc
This command sets the value of tab increment to @var{inc}. The tab
increment controls the depth of indentation per indentation level.
@end deffn

@findex lse-shell-command
@deffn Command lse-shell-command command &optional flag
This command executes the unix command @var{command} in an shell. If you
specify the prefix argument flag, LS-Emacs will insert the output from
the shell into the current buffer.

@kindex blue x
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue x}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-shift-select-mark
@deffn Command lse-shift-select-mark by
This command shifts the position of the selection mark by @var{by}
characters to the right.
@end deffn

@findex lse-show-position
@deffn Command lse-show-position
This command displays the current position in the message window:
current line number, total line number, current column, current line
length, position of point and buffer size in bytes.

@kindex blue kp7
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp7}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-split-line
@deffn Command lse-split-line
This command splits the current line. It handles comments properly,
i.e., if point is inside a comment, @code{lse-split-line} will insert a
comment terminator at the end of the current line, insert a new-line and
insert a comment starter in the new line.

@kindex blue RET
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue RET}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-split-window
@deffn Command lse-split-window &optional wdw horizontally
This command splits the current window into two and balances the sizes
of all windows so that they are roughly equal. It leaves point in the
lower or right window. The optional argument @var{wdw} instructs the
command to split another than the current window. If a value for
@var{horizontally} is given, @code{lse-split-window} will split the
current window horizontally instead of vertically.

@kindex gold =
@kindex blue =
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{gold =} and @kbd{blue =}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-split-window-horizontally
@deffn Command lse-split-window-horizontally &optional wdw
This command splits the current window horizontally. It leaves point in
the lower or right window. The optional argument @var{wdw} instructs the
command to split another than the current window.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tabulator
@deffn Command lse-tabulator
If point currently is at the beginning of a line, this command indents
the line corresponding to the next non-blank line in forward direction;
otherwise it calls @code{lse-align-to-previous-word}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-toggle-mark-buffer
@deffn Command lse-toggle-mark-buffer
This command interchanges the current position and the position of the
top-mark of the mark-stack of the current buffer.

@kindex blue gold t
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold t}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-toggle-mark-global
@deffn Command lse-toggle-mark-global
This command interchanges the current position and the position of the
top-mark of the global mark-stack.

@kindex gold t
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold t}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-toggle-mark-window
@deffn Command lse-toggle-mark-window
This command interchanges the current position and the position of the
top-mark of the mark-stack of the current window.

@kindex blue t
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue t}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:add-at-bol
@deffn Command lse-tpu:add-at-bol text
This command adds @var{text} to the beginning of each line in the
selected region or in the entire buffer, if no selection is active.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:add-at-eol
@deffn Command lse-tpu:add-at-eol text
This command adds @var{text} to the end of each line in the
selected region or in the entire buffer, if no selection is active.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:advance-direction
@deffn Command lse-tpu:advance-direction
Set direction to forward. This influences the behavior of many LS-Emacs
commands.

@kindex kp4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:backup-direction
@deffn Command lse-tpu:backup-direction
Set direction to reverse or backward. This influences the behavior of many LS-Emacs
commands.

@kindex kp5
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp5}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:backward-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:backward-char num
This command moves @var{num} characters in the reverse direction
(forward, if @var{num} is negative).
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:backward-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:backward-line num
This command moves to the beginning of the next line in reverse
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies
how many lines to move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:capitalize-strongly
@deffn Command lse-tpu:capitalize-strongly
This command capitalizes the selection or search-match, if any, or else
the current word. Strongly means that this command first converts all
characters to lower case before capitalizing the initial letters of the
words in the range.

@kindex blue c
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue c}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:capitalize-weakly
@deffn Command lse-tpu:capitalize-weakly
This command capitalizes the selection or search-match, if any, or else
the current word. Weakly means that this command does not convert any
characters to lower case before capitalizing the initial letters of the
words in the range.

@kindex gold c
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold c}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:change-case
@deffn Command lse-tpu:change-case &optional num
This command inverts the case of the selected region, if any, or of the
character under the cursor. Using a prefix argument @var{num} you can
specify how many characters to change.

@kindex gold kp1
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp1}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:change-case-lower
@deffn Command lse-tpu:change-case-lower
This command changes all characters in the selection or search-range, if
any, or else of the current word to lower-case.

@kindex gold l
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold l}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:change-case-upper
@deffn Command lse-tpu:change-case-upper
This command changes all characters in the selection or search-range, if
any, or else of the current word to upper-case.

@kindex gold u
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold u}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:char num
This command moves @var{num} characters in the current direction.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:copy-append-region
@deffn Command lse-tpu:copy-append-region
This command appends the selected region to the paste-buffer without
deleting it.

@kindex blue kp9
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp9}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:copy-region
@deffn Command lse-tpu:copy-region
Copy the selected region to the paste-buffer without deleting it. The
previous contents of the paste-buffer is lost.

@kindex kp9
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp9}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:current-end-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:current-end-of-line
This command moves point to the end of the current line. It will not go
to another line.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:cut-append-region
@deffn Command lse-tpu:cut-append-region
This command deletes the selected region and appends it to the
paste-buffer.

@kindex kp9
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp9}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:cut-region
@deffn Command lse-tpu:cut-region
Delete the selected region and put it into the paste-buffer. The
previous contents of the paste-buffer is lost.

@kindex kp6
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp6}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-head-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-head-of-line num &optional append
This command deletes the beginnings of the next @var{num} lines and
stores them for the command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}. Unless you use
the optional argument @var{append}, the old value of the
line-deletion-history is lost.

@kindex A-u
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-u}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-head-of-line-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-head-of-line-append num 
This command deletes the beginnings of the next @var{num} lines and
appends them to the line-deletion-history for later use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-char num &optional append
This command deletes the next @var{num} characters and stores them for
the command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-char}. Unless you use the optional
argument @var{append}, the old value of the character-deletion-history
is lost.

@kindex kp,
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp,}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-char-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-char-append num 
This command deletes the next @var{num} characters and appends them to
the character-deletion-history for use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-char}.

@kindex gold kp,
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp,}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-line num &optional append
This command deletes the next @var{num} lines and stores them for the
command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}. Unless you use the optional
argument @var{append}, the old value of the line-deletion-history is
lost.

@kindex pf4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{pf4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-line-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-line-append num
This command deletes the next @var{num} lines and appends them to the
line-deletion-history for later use by the
command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}. 

@kindex blue gold pf4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold pf4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-word
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-word num &optional append
This command deletes the next @var{num} words and stores them for the
command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-word}. Unless you use the optional
argument @var{append}, the old value of the word-deletion-history is
lost.

@kindex kp-
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp-}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-next-word-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-next-word-append num 
This command deletes the next word and appends it to the
word-deletion-history for later use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-word}.  

@kindex blue kp-
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp-}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-prev-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-prev-char num &optional append
This command deletes the previous @var{num} characters and stores them for
the command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-char}. Unless you use the optional
argument @var{append}, the old value of the character-deletion-history
is lost.

@kindex DEL
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{DEL}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-prev-char-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-prev-char-append num 
This command deletes the previous @var{num} characters and appends them
to the character-deletion-history for later use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-char}.

@kindex blue DEL
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue DEL}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-prev-word
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-prev-word num &optional append
This command deletes the previous word and stores it for the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-word}.  Unless you use the optional argument
@var{append}, the old value of the word-deletion-history is lost.

@kindex LFD
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{LFD}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-prev-word-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-prev-word-append num 
This command deletes the previous word and appends it to the
word-deletion-history for later use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-word}.  

@kindex blue LFD
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue LFD}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-tail-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-tail-of-line num &optional append
This command deletes the ends of the next @var{num} lines and
stores them for the command @code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}. Unless you use
the optional argument @var{append}, the old value of the
line-deletion-history is lost.

@kindex gold kp2
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp2}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:delete-tail-of-line-append
@deffn Command lse-tpu:delete-tail-of-line-append num 
This command deletes the ends of the next @var{num} lines and appends
them to the line-deletion-history for later use by the command
@code{lse-tpu:undelete-line}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-bs-word
@deffn Command lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-bs-word num
This command duplicates the previous @var{num} blank-separated words. 

@kindex blue remove
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue remove}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-char num
This command duplicates the previous char @var{num} times.

@kindex blue kp,
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp,}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-line num
This command inserts a duplicate of the previous line into the current
line. If point is at the beginning of the current line
lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-line will duplicate the entire previous line,
otherwise it will duplicate the end of the previous line.

By specifying the prefix argument @var{num} you can instruct the command
to duplicate an earlier line in the buffer.

@kindex blue pf4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue pf4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-word
@deffn Command lse-tpu:duplicate-previous-word num
This command duplicates the previous @var{num} words.

@kindex blue kp-
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp-}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:duplicate-word-in-previous-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:duplicate-word-in-previous-line num
This command duplicates the word of the previous line starting in the
current column.

By specifying the prefix argument @var{num} you can instruct the command
to duplicate a word from an earlier line in the buffer.

@kindex blue gold blue kp-
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold blue kp-}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:end-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:end-of-line num
This command moves to the end of the next line in the current direction.
The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many lines to move.

@kindex kp3
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp3}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:exchange-point-and-mark
@deffn Command lse-tpu:exchange-point-and-mark
This command interchanges the position of point and the other boundary
of the selection.

@kindex blue kp.
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp.}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:exit
@deffn Command lse-tpu:exit
This command saves the current buffer to its associated file, if
necessary, asks about all other buffers, and terminates LS-Emacs.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:forward-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:forward-char num
This command moves @var{num} characters in the forward direction
(reverse, if @var{num} is negative).
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:forward-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:forward-line num
This command moves to the beginning of the next line in forward
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies
how many lines to move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-bs-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-bs-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the next blank-separated word in
the current direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify
how many words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.

@kindex kp2
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp2}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-next-bs-word-head
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-next-bs-word-head num &optional limit
This command moves to the beginning of the next blank-separated word in
forward direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify
how many words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-next-bs-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-next-bs-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the next blank-separated word in
forward direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify
how many words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-next-word-head
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-next-word-head num &optional limit
This command moves to the beginning of the next word in forward
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-next-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-next-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the next word in forward
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-prev-bs-word-head
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-prev-bs-word-head num &optional limit
This command moves to the beginning of the previous blank-separated word
in reverse direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can
specify how many words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.

@kindex remove
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{remove}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-prev-bs-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-prev-bs-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the previous blank-separated word
in reverse direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can
specify how many words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-prev-word-head
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-prev-word-head num &optional limit
This command moves to the beginning of the previous word in reverse
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-prev-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-prev-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the previous word in reverse
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-word-head
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-word-head num &optional limit
This command moves to the beginning of the next word in the current
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.

@kindex kp1
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp1}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:goto-word-tail
@deffn Command lse-tpu:goto-word-tail num &optional limit
This command moves to the end of the next word in the current
direction. By using a numeric prefix @var{num} you can specify how many
words to move.

The optional argument @var{limit} restricts how far the command will move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:insert-formfeed
@deffn Command lse-tpu:insert-formfeed
This command inserts a form-feed character into the current buffer.

@kindex A-l
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-l}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:invert-case
@deffn Command lse-tpu:invert-case
This command inverts the case of all characters in the selected region
or the search-range or the current word.

@kindex blue kp1
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp1}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:line num
This command moves to the beginning of the next line in the current
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies
how many lines to move.

@kindex kp0
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp0}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:move-to-beginning
@deffn Command lse-tpu:move-to-beginning
This command moves point to the beginning of the buffer. In contrast to
the analogous function of standard Emacs, this command does not set the
mark.

@kindex gold kp5
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp5}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:move-to-end
@deffn Command lse-tpu:move-to-end
This command moves point to the end of the buffer. In contrast to
the analogous function of standard Emacs, this command does not set the
mark.

@kindex gold kp4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:next-beginning-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:next-beginning-of-line num
This command moves to the beginning of the current line; if already at
beginning, move to the beginning of the previous line, i.e., in reverse
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} [A[B[B[specifies how many lines to
move (a negative argument or zero moves in forward direction).

@kindex A-h
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-h}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:next-end-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:next-end-of-line num
This command moves to the end of the current line; if already at end,
move to the end of the next line. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies
how many lines to move (a negative argument or zero moves in reverse
direction).
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:next-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:next-line num
This command moves point down by @var{num} lines (default: 1 line). 

@kindex down
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{down}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:next-paragraph
@deffn Command lse-tpu:next-paragraph num
This command moves to the beginning of the next paragraph in forward
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many paragraphs
to move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:page
@deffn Command lse-tpu:page num
This command moves to the next page in the current direction. 
The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many pages
to move.

@kindex kp7
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp7}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:pan-left
@deffn Command lse-tpu:pan-left num
This command scrolls the current window horizontally to the left. You
can specify a numeric prefix @var{num} to scroll that times as much. The
user option @code{lse-tpu:pan-columns} specifies how many columns are scrolled.

@kindex gold <
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold <}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:pan-right
@deffn Command lse-tpu:pan-right num
This command scrolls the current window horizontally to the right. You
can specify a numeric prefix @var{num} to scroll that times as much. The
user option @code{lse-tpu:pan-columns} specifies how many columns are scrolled.

@kindex gold >
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold >}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:paragraph
@deffn Command lse-tpu:paragraph num
This command moves to the next paragraph in current direction. The
prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many paragraphs to move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:paste-region
@deffn Command lse-tpu:paste-region num
This command inserts the contents of the paste-buffer @var{num} times into the
current buffer. The contents of the paste-buffer is not changed.

@kindex gold kp6
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp6}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:previous-end-of-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:previous-end-of-line num
This command moves to the end of the previous line; if already at end,
move to the end of the next line. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies
how many lines to move (a negative argument or zero moves in forward
direction).
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:previous-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:previous-line num
This command moves point up by @var{num} lines (default: 1 line). 

@kindex up
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{up}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:previous-paragraph
@deffn Command lse-tpu:previous-paragraph num
This command moves to the beginning of the previous paragraph in reverse
direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies how many paragraphs
to move.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:quit
@deffn Command lse-tpu:quit
This command terminates LS-Emacs. If any buffer would need saving,
@code{lse-tpu:quit} asks for confirmation. It will not save any buffer.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:quoted-insert
@deffn Command lse-tpu:quoted-insert num
This command inserts the character with decimal ASCII code @var{num}
into the buffer. If used interactively, it will prompt for @var{num} ---
press the key you want to insert.

@kindex A-v
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-v}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:replace
@deffn Command lse-tpu:replace from to &option head-limit tail-limit
This command will look at all occurrences of @var{from} by @var{to} in the
range between @var{head-limit} and @var{to-limit} (default is to replace
in the whole buffer) and ask you if you want to replace each one of them.

@kindex gold kp8
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp8}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:replace-all
@deffn Command lse-tpu:replace-all from to &option head-limit tail-limit
This command replaces all occurrences of @var{from} by @var{to} in the
range between @var{head-limit} and @var{to-limit} (default is to replace
in the whole buffer). The command will prompt for @var{from} and
@var{to}.

@kindex gold enter
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold enter}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:scroll-window
@deffn Command lse-tpu:scroll-window num
This command scrolls the current window to the next section in the
current direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies a repeat
count.

@kindex kp8
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{kp8}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:scroll-window-down
@deffn Command lse-tpu:scroll-window-down num
This command scrolls the current window down to the next section, i.e.,
in reverse direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies a repeat
count.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:scroll-window-up
@deffn Command lse-tpu:scroll-window-up num
This command scrolls the current window up to the next section, i.e.,
in forward direction. The prefix argument @var{num} specifies a repeat
count
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:search
@deffn Command lse-tpu:search
This command searches for a string or regular expression in the current
direction. It prompts for the search-string.

@kindex gold pf3
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold pf3}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:search-again
@deffn Command lse-tpu:search-again
This command searches for the next occurrence of a string or regular
expression in the current direction. It uses the same search-string as
the last search command.

@kindex pf3
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{pf3}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:search-forward
@deffn Command lse-tpu:search-forward
This command searches for a string or regular expression in the forward
direction. It prompts for the search-string.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:search-reverse
@deffn Command lse-tpu:search-reverse
This command searches for a string or regular expression in the reverse
direction. It prompts for the search-string.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:select
@deffn Command lse-tpu:select &optional quiet
This command starts a selection. The current position of point becomes
one of the boundaries of the selection. By moving the cursor, you can
change the outer boundary.

@kindex kp.
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{kp.} and
@kbd{select}. 
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:show-match-markers
@deffn Command lse-tpu:show-match-markers
This command shows the value of the match markers in the message window.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:special-insert
@deffn Command lse-tpu:special-insert num
Insert a character according to its decimal ASCII value @var{num}.
Interactively, you specify @var{num} as prefix argument.

@kindex gold kp3
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp3}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:spell-check
@deffn Command lse-tpu:spell-check
Checks the spelling of the selected region, or of the entire buffer if
no selection is active.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:toggle-newline-and-indent
@deffn Command lse-tpu:toggle-newline-and-indent
This command toggles the binding of the @kbd{@key{ret}} between `newline
and indent' and `simple newline'.

@kindex blue gold RET
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold RET}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:toggle-overwrite-mode
@deffn Command lse-tpu:toggle-overwrite-mode
This command toggles between overwrite and insert mode.

@kindex A-a
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{A-a}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:toggle-regexp
@deffn Command lse-tpu:toggle-regexp
This command toggles between string search and regular expression search
mode. This mode applies to all LS-Emacs functions dealing with searching
and replacing.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:toggle-search-direction
@deffn Command lse-tpu:toggle-search-direction
This command inverts the search direction.
@kindex blue kp4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue kp4}.

@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:trim-line-end
@deffn Command lse-tpu:trim-line-end
This command removes white space from the end of the current line.

@kindex blue TAB kp3
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue TAB kp3}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:trim-line-ends
@deffn Command lse-tpu:trim-line-ends
This command removes white space from the end of all lines in the
buffer. 

@kindex blue ~
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue ~}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:show-version
@deffn Command lse-tpu:show-version
This command displays the version of LS-Emacs you're currently using.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:toggle-rectangle
@deffn Command lse-tpu:toggle-rectangle
This command toggles rectangular mode for cutting and pasting of
selections.

@kindex gold r
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold r}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:undelete-char
@deffn Command lse-tpu:undelete-char num
This command undeletes the contents of the character-deletion-history
@var{num} times.

@kindex gold kp,
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp,}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:undelete-line
@deffn Command lse-tpu:undelete-line num
This command undeletes the contents of the line-deletion-history
@var{num} times.

@kindex gold pf4
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold pf4}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:undelete-word
@deffn Command lse-tpu:undelete-word num
This command undeletes the contents of the word-deletion-history
@var{num} times.

@kindex gold kp-
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold kp-}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-tpu:unselect
@deffn Command lse-tpu:unselect &optional quiet
This command cancels an active selection.

@kindex gold kp.
By default, this command is bound to the keys @kbd{gold kp.} and
@kbd{gold select}. 
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-unexpand-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-unexpand-fill-in
This command un-expands the last expansion of a fill-in. You can
un-expand any number of expansions. You may later re-expand the
un-expansion by using the command @code{lse-reexpand-fill-in}.

@kindex gold A-e
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold A-e}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-unkill-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-unkill-fill-in
This command un-kills the last fill-in that was killed. You cannot
un-kill more than one fill-in.

@kindex gold A-k
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold A-k}.
@end deffn
 
@findex lse-unreplace-fill-in
@deffn Command lse-unreplace-fill-in
This command un-replaces the last replacement of a fill-in. You may
un-replace any number of replacements.

@kindex gold A-r
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold A-r}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-untabify-buffer
@deffn Command lse-untabify-buffer
This command replaces all tabulator characters in the current buffer by
the appropriate number of spaces.
@end deffn

@findex lse-untabify-line
@deffn Command lse-untabify-line
This command replaces all tabulator characters in the current line by
the appropriate number of spaces.
@end deffn

@findex lse-visit-alternate-file
@deffn Command lse-visit-alternate-file &optional file
This command replaces the contents of the current buffer by the file
@var{file}.

@kindex C-x C-v
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{C-x C-v}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-visit-file
@deffn Command lse-visit-file &optional must-not-exist file
This command reads the file @var{file} into a new buffer and switches to
that buffer. If the prefx argument @var{must-not-exist} is specified, a
new file is created if it does not already exit.

When you specify a prefix argument, you can use the shell-wildcard
`@code{*}' as part of the file name. LS-Emacs will read all files
matching the wildcarded name. Alternatively, you can enclose in
back-quotes any shell command which writes a list of file names to
standard output. For instance, you can visit all files containing a
regular expression by using the shell command @code{grep}.

@kindex gold i
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold i}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-visit-file-other-window
@deffn Command lse-visit-file-other-window &optional must-not-exist file
This command reads the file @var{file} into a new buffer and switches to
that buffer in another window. If @var{must-not-exist} is specified, a
new file is created if it does not already exit.

@kindex blue gold i
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue gold i}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-window:restore-temp-hidden
@deffn Command lse-window:restore-temp-hidden
This command removes a window temporarily thrown up by Emacs, e.g., a
help window, and restores the buffer which was shown previously in that place.

@kindex blue A-f
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue A-f}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-write-current-buffer
@deffn Command lse-write-current-buffer
This command writes the buffer to its associated file, no matter
if it was changed or not.

@kindex blue w
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{blue w}.
@end deffn

@findex lse-write-buffer
@deffn Command lse-write-buffer buf
This command writes buffer @var{buf} to its associated file, no matter
if it was changed or not.

@kindex gold w
By default, this command is bound to the key @kbd{gold w}.
@end deffn 
